well howdy there internet people it's bo
again
so today we are going to talk about your
community network and how to keep it
moving
if you are new to the channel you may
not have heard me talk about these
before but i'm a pretty big proponent
of establishing community networks
networks at your local level
that basically are made up of
your friends your co-workers those who
have made an open commitment to making
their community better in some way
this little circle of friends
this little network is adaptable
you don't make it about a specific cause
you make it about a general idea so it
can adapt to different situations
i've had a lot of questions about them
over the last couple of weeks one of the
big ones
is how to keep people interested in it
because people start off and
they uh it starts off strong and there's
a whole bunch of activism going on
and there's positive changes made in the
community and
everything's great and then people lose
interest
in the videos where i really break these
down i talk about how it's important to
make it fun
because otherwise it becomes a second
job and nobody wants that
you have to have social interaction that
goes along with it
doesn't mean that it can't also be
productive but
it has to be fun it has to be something
people want to do otherwise
they stop doing it the other thing you
have to keep in mind
is different personality types if you're
the person who
is setting this in motion you're
probably pretty extroverted
a lot of people aren't so if
every week or every month however you
have your set up
people are going out and getting out in
public and talking to people and doing
all this stuff
it may become very taxing for them you
have to give them a break
so i'm going to give you four things
that
my little circle does some less
frequently than we used to
to kind of break it up all right
the first is cross training skill shares
there are two ways to do this the first
one is a planned one
that's where everybody shows up and you
know what you're going to be talking
about that day
more than likely you picked a manual
like a medical manual and everybody took
a piece of it
and mastered that skill then when you
get together
everybody teaches the other people how
to do that skill so by the time you're
done everybody knows the whole manual
um those are the planned ones unplanned
ones
are when everybody shows up and nobody
knows what they're going to be learning
because everybody has decided
to share a different skill this could be
a blue collar skill it could be cooking
it could be a history lesson it could be
anything at all you don't know it keeps
people on their toes
keeps it interesting
this helps make your community network
well more well-rounded it also gets
everybody on the same page when it comes
to skill sets
it enriches everybody that's involved in
it in addition to making the network
stronger
this is these are all good things um
the next one is we call it adventure day
i don't know basically
it's spur the moment in the sense of
everybody knows that something's going
to happen that day so they have the day
off or they're planned for it
but you don't know what everybody
proposes a suggestion on scene
and you go do it right then no going to
change clothes
no going to pick stuff up you do it
right then
it makes people more adaptable um
in the past a canoe trip
uh one was just a a wild trip to new
orleans it wound up lasting two days
um bungee jumping these are all
different things that
it keeps people interested keeps people
on their toes it's something fun
that the network does as a group
that isn't necessarily work
now at the same time you're still making
people more adaptable
and you are becoming tighter as a group
because you're engaging in something now
that's more for young
people the ones that i listed as you get
older those change could be
an escape of the room challenge
paintball
whatever the point is that the network
is working as a team
and it helps develop that unit integrity
the third thing you can do is build a
network resource
which is everybody's getting together
and this is something that
makes the network more stable for
example it could be everybody getting
together
to build uh or to put a garden in
at everybody's house if you don't have
space a container garden
planting fruit trees whatever but the
point is
it's it's establishing a resource
that the network can tap into later if
need be
you can come together and put together
an advanced
medical kit depending on your economic
level maybe
everybody's putting one together if not
everybody's chipping in to put together
a really good one
that can deal with everything because
most people they have a first
aid kit they don't have a trauma kit
and if you combine this with the cross
training
not just will you have this resource
people will know how to use it
that's another thing that i've seen is
people have the equipment but don't know
how to use it because they never trained
um
and a side benefit to that
is if you're building one for the whole
network
people are chipping in for it may only
be 20 bucks
but there's that transaction that occurs
and for whatever reason
chipping in twenty dollars
makes people more invested in it even
though the time they've put in
is worth way more than twenty dollars
that cash for whatever reason
seems to keep people tied to it
another thing you can do is put together
a disaster relief
stash so it's something that everybody
can tap into
in the event something goes bad now
you're not going to be able to build one
that's going to be big enough for
everybody
not without like a warehouse but there's
a safety net
you're establishing your own social
safety net here
because as we know the government
response to disasters is less than ideal
you have your own
the fourth thing you can do is build a
community resource
and that can be anything from
a library box i actually saw there's a
little town near me
where somebody just put one in it just
made my day
so if you don't know what these are
they're little boxes
that are set out maybe in your front
yard
somewhere where you have authorization
and it's stocked
with books people take one leave one
that kind of thing
a couple of things happens with this one
it's something fun to do for the group
two it's something that's public
that not just does your network see as
something they did for the community
that will be ongoing but it's something
the public sees
about your community they
winning hearts and minds and all of that
so
they start to see you as an asset which
means when you ask for their assistance
they're more likely to give it because
they they see you
trying to help the community and it
could be a library box you do a food box
um there's a whole bunch of different
stuff like that that you can do you can
establish
something for the community if somebody
has an inn with the city council or
county commission or whatever it is
planting those fruit trees but at a park
if they'll let you um
you know repairing a playground stuff
like that little things
like this that don't
their activism but they don't jump all
the way into the full-scale stuff that
these networks normally get involved in
everybody needs a break
you're going to suffer burnout
i know given the current political
climate right now in the u.s
and what a lot of people believe is on
the horizon
this seems like a weird thing to talk
about however i would point out
that if you were a part of one of these
networks
if you had a close circle
that you knew you could rely on and that
you
trained with that you worked with that
you knew were committed
to making things better what's on the
horizon
it's a little less scary
it's a little less scary um i have a
whole bunch of videos about how to
establish these how to build these
these networks can in a sense
help replace a lot of government
functions
people coming together working together
they can they can help your community
get to a situation where you're not as
reliant
on the outside and that may become
important
it's important today in any political
climate because that's how you make
things
better however when michael happened
here
this network was really important
under normal circumstances they make
things better
when things get bad they can kind of
help
maintain some semblance of what's normal
um if you don't have one of these if you
haven't started one of these
it might be time it might be a really
good idea
bring your group together now i will say
that i heard the group
in chattanooga called themselves the
fifth
column i don't mind i don't have like a
branding issue with that or anything i
would just point out
that if you google that term it doesn't
come back to the cool story about a news
outlet it comes back to a term you may
not necessarily want to be
associated with
but at the end of the day
our current political climate and it
doesn't matter if we're talking about
what may or may not be on the horizon in
everybody's fear right now
it doesn't matter who wins the election
what gets the goods what gets stuff done
is action at the community level it's
always been like that
establishing one of these networks is
probably one of the more effective
things you can do
for civic engagement anyway
it's just a thought y'all have a good
day